                             Notes for MAIL 1.19b
                             --------------------

Well here it is, after two years of waiting a new version of MAIL, formerly
known as POLL, has been released. The reason why it took so long is that the
XMODEM/Telink session routines have been completely rewritten from scratch two
times! The main improvement is the addition of SEAlink, an XMODEM-compatible
streaming protocol which offers better file transfer performance, including
automatic resume of an interrupted transfer. But improvements have been made in
other areas as well, such as true 4-dimensional point support using the
FSC-0039 packet proposal.

Please also read the new manual, since this has been changed significantly
since the last version.

Unfortunately, I am unable to release a new version of TempFront as of yet.
TempFront has been discontinued and will be incorporated in the next version of
QBOX as an integrated mail front-end for the BBS. The SEAlink protocol will be
incorporated in QBOX as well in both the mail front-end and the BBS, so you
as a sysop will finally be able to offer your users a decent protocol.

Well, that's it for now, here below follows the list of changes.


- Complete rewrite of XMODEM/Telink file transfer routines. MAIL now supports
  SEAlink file transfer as well as XMODEM/Telink.
  SEAlink (invented by System Enhancement Associates Inc., USA) improves
  performance of XMODEM file transfers by sending ahead blocks which have not
  yet been acknowledged by the receiver. To allow this, the receiver extends
  its ACK/NAK responses with the block number of the last received block. Since
  the sender doesn't have to wait for each block to be acknowledged, file
  transfer efficiency can be improved by 20% or even more, especially when
  there are significant delays in the transmission channel (long distance phone
  lines or buffered modems with MNP error correction). SEAlink is completely
  backwards compatible with XMODEM and will fall back to it if it detects that
  the remote end does not support it.
  The SEAlink implementation of MAIL also supports RESYNC, an extension which
  allows an interrupted file transfer to be resumed at the point where it
  previously went wrong. No more annoyance and wasted time and money caused by
  a large XMODEM file transfer failing just before the end so you had to start
  over again from the beginning! The remote mailer has to support the RESYNC
  extension too for it to work though. However most modern SEAlink
  implementations which have been written according to the FTS-0007
  specification do.

- Full 4-dimensional address support has been implemented using the FSC-0039
  packet header proposal. IMPORTANT: Not all FidoNet technology mailers
  recognise the extended zone and point fields in the FSC-0039 packet and still
  treat the address as 2D (i.e. they assume the zone as being their own zone
  and the point as being zero). If you use MAIL as a point, you should ONLY use
  4D addressing if you are sure that the other end does actually support it
  using FSC-0039. Otherwise, use "pointnet" addressing (i.e. pointnet/point.0).
  At this time of writing, among the most popular mailers for MS-DOS, only
  FrontDoor version 2.00 and higher supports FSC-0039. BinkleyTerm does not.
  TempFront up to and including 1.04 also doesn't support FSC-0039, but the new
  version built into QBOX will do.
  Mailing a non-FSC-0039 mailer using 4D-addressing can be dangerous as you can
  pick up mail which is actually destined for your boss node! Future versions
  of MAIL will implement the YooHoo (FTS-0006) address handshake which has
  significantly wider support and does not only pass the 4-dimensional address
  but also the system's name, sysop name and session password to the remote
  system as well.

- Session passwording has been implemented, again using FSC-0039. The same
  restrictions as with 4D-addressing mentioned above apply to this feature.
  Read the documentation for more details as how to pass the password to the
  remote system.

- MAIL allows a retry count to be set for both calling attempts and handshake
  attempts. It will keep calling the remote system until either the mail
  session completes successfully, one of the retry limits is exceeded or the
  calling process is aborted manually. The retry limits and delay between calls
  are taken from the standard configuration but can be overridden by specifying
  them on the command line (see manual).

- The dreaded "NETMAIL_PKT" has been fixed. MAIL will generate ".PKT" files
  with random names instead.

- When a duplicate-named file is received, MAIL will rename it by appending a
  digit after the name. E.g. when you receive a file "ALLFILES.ZIP" and there
  is already such a file in your inbound, the new file will have the name
  "ALLFILES.ZIP0" instead. A subsequent duplicate-named file would be named
  "ALLFILES.ZIP1" and so on.
  This only applies when the time-stamps of the local and remote file are
  different. If they are the same, then MAIL assumes that the local file is an
  incomplete copy of the remote due to a previous interrupted session and
  either resumes the SEAlink transfer from where it left off or overwrites the
  local file if the file transfer protocol is not SEAlink or the remote end
  does not support SEAlink RESYNC.

- On V2 device drivers, the time stamp of received files is now set to the
  original file date and time as passed by the SEAlink or Telink header block.
  If the device driver does not support the IOF.DATE call, MAIL will keep the
  time stamp at location 10 in the file header. This allows SEAlink RESYNC to
  still work correctly.

- Improved session progress monitoring. MAIL can update the QBOX log file and
  display progress on screen simultaneously. It also opens its own window if no
  channel parameter is given when executed. If a channel is given, it will use
  that for session progress monitoring as before.
  Note that if you use the same log file for MAIL and QBOX, you cannot have
  both programs running at the same time as QDOS does not allow two programs
  writing to the same file.

- A short help screen now appears when no parameters are given on the command
  line.

- A different origin address can now be specified by using "A=<address>" on the
  command line.

- If a _PKT file already exists for the destination system, MAIL will overwrite
  its packet header contents (not the messages within it).

- The built-in message packer (using _MSG files) has been removed. There is no
  more need for it since there are now external netmail packers available (e.g.
  Erik Slagter's QSCAN).

