                  "QCON" DEVICE for TANDATA QCONNECT
                  ----------------------------------


Copyright (C) 1990 by Jan Bredenbeek, Hilversum, Holland. Use and distribution
is granted only for non-commercial environments. The author assumes no 
liability of any kind regarding the fitness of the QCON device driver for
any particular purpose.


Introduction
------------

The QCON Device Driver allows you to connect a standard RS-232 modem to the QL
without the problems usually involved with the built-in serial ports, using the
Tandata Qconnect module. Problems that will be cured with the Qconnect module
are:

- No more data corruption at lower port speeds
- No more overrun errors causing the QL's port to "lag behind"
- Split speed (1200/75 and 75/1200 bps) available
- Carrier monitoring available (useful when running a BBS)
- DTR drops low when closing a channel, disconnecting the modem properly

The QCON driver provides a unique solution by providing total data
transparency. This means that the application software does not have to treat
Qconnect control codes in a special way. So you may use any terminal program
you like, even if it is not written for the Qconnect module, as long as it is
possible to redirect the serial channel to QCON. The main goal of QCON however
was to provide compatibility with the QSPHAYES modem driver for the QBOX BBS
program.

NOTE: The QCON driver is NOT meant to be used in conjunction with the QMOD and
QCALL devices from Tandata. It is only meant as an aid to allow decent modems
to be used decently on the QL.


Installation
------------

You should connect your modem to the 25-way D-socket on the Qconnect module,
and the 6-way BICC connector from the Qconnect module to the SER2 port. Also
you need to connect the lead from the QL's power supply to the socket on the
Qconnect module marked "POWER", and connect the power lead from the Qconnect
module to the QL.

In your BOOT file, you should place a command "LRESPR <device>QCON_REXT". This
will load and initialise the QCON driver.

To open a channel to the QCON device, use the device name

         QCON_bpc

where "b" is the baudrate required (300, 1200, 1275, 7512, 2400, 4800 or 9600)
      "p" the parity (default none or [O]dd, [E]ven, [M]ark or [S]pace)
and   "c" carrier watchdog (default=no or C for "yes")

Note that a baudrate of 1275 means that Qconnect will receive at 1200 bps and
send at 75 bps, 7512 means exactly the opposite. Although QCON allows a
baudrate of 9600 to be set, the Qconnect documentation does not guarantee
proper communication at this speed.

When Odd, Even, Mark or Space parity is used, the high (7th) bit of incoming
data bytes is stripped without verification.

When Carrier Watchdog is specified and the DCD line on the Qconnect port drops
to "low" after being "high", subsequent calls to fetch input bytes from the
QCON channel will return an "end of file" error code. Also, calls to send bytes
through the QCON channel will return without actually sending data. This
convention is used by QBOX to recover from a premature loss of carrier.

The "extended" serial port I/O traps (FS.FLUSH, IO.DUMP, IO.PARIT and IO.BAUD)
are supported by the QCON driver. For an explanation of these traps, please
refer to the QSPHAYES documentation.

To make the IO.BAUD trap accessible from within SuperBASIC, the QCON driver
incorporates a replacement BAUD command. The syntax is as follows:

         BAUD [#channel],baudrate

If a channel is specified (which must have been opened to a suitable device)
the new baudrate will be set for the channel by means of an IO.BAUD call.
Otherwise, the usual MT.BAUD trap is called for compatibility. Note that in
both cases the baudrate is passed on as a 32-bit integer rather than a 16-bit
one (as the built-in BAUD command does). This allows future drivers to have the
baudrate set to a greater value than 32767 (if the hardware can handle it!).

NOTES:

1. When specifying a baudrate as a parameter to the QCON device name, the
Qconnect module will be initialised. If the baudrate parameter is omitted, no
initialisation command will be sent. The baudrate may however be set with the
IO.BAUD trap or the extended BAUD command, which also sends an INITIALISE
command (which also causes RTS and DTR on the Qconnect to be raised).

2. You MUST ensure that the QL's own baud rate is set at 9600. This will be
done automatically when the QCON device is loaded.


Using the QCON device with QBOX
-------------------------------

When using a Hayes-compatible modem, I strongly recommend you to use QSPHAYES 
version 0.99d or later as QSPIL driver. In the configuration program, you 
should specify "QCONC" as the port name. Other parameters should be set 
according to your modem's needs.

                           --- END OF FILE ---
